There are three Meta currencies in this homebrew
###### Fate
Fate is the Character meta currency. Each character starts the game with a number of Fate points equal to their refresh. The number of Fate points that every character has waxes and wanes over the course of a session. There are ways to gain more Fate points and ways to spend Fate points.
The game Master has one Fate point for each Player character in the scene. He can perform the same Fate spends.
###### Fate spends
- **Reroll** - during a Skill test, if you want to improve the result, you may reroll the dice pool by spending a point of Fate on a narratively appropriate aspect. (Can also be bought with a Free Invoke on an Aspect) *Example: Tal Odai is trying to jump over a ravine to get at the Sith artifact on the other side. It's a Difficulty 2 [[Skill test#Overcome|Overcome action]] as the ravine is a **Wide Ravine** (Aspect). He rolls Athletics+Kinesthesia. His target number is 13. He buys one die with Momentum giving him three dice to roll. He rolls a 7, a 14 and a 17. That's only one success against a Difficulty of 2. Tal's player decides that because Tal's High concept is **Cyber Treasure Hunter** that he would be very motivated to getting this Sith treasure. He uses one Fate point to invoke **Cyber Treasure Hunter** for a reroll. He decides to keep the 7 and reroll the other two dice. Another 7 and a 20. He now has the needed two shifts for a tie and succeeds at a minor costs. But he has also rolled a complication. Tal Odai's player cannot buy another reroll as each die may only be rerolled once. He is stuck with the Complication! The minor cost of the jump is that he falls short by a bit but manages to grab on to the edge on the other side. The complication is an **Activating ancient defense robot** that is guarding the artifact and is rising from the ground. Tal Odai will have to pull himself up fast to not fall prey to this new threat.*
- **Additional shift** -  after rolling dice for a Skill test, when counting shifts to determine the level of success, you can spend a point of Fate on a narratively appropriate aspect to add one additional shift to your Skill test result. You may invoke this several times for the same Skill test but each time has to be on a different Aspect, unless bought through a free invoke. (Can also be bought with a Free Invoke on an Aspect. If the Aspect should have multiple Free Invokes stacked on it, this can be bought multiple times with these free invokes)
- **Declare a story detail** - You can spend a point of Fate to declare a story detail. There is an item that you have been carrying in your pouch all along, the crates over there are actually filled with explosives, this merchant, you actually know them from kindergarten, the guard fell asleep during guard duty, etc.. Work with your GM on what would fit the scene. As long as it's not too outlandish they should Approve it. This story detail can manifest itself in an Aspect. If it does, you get a free invoke on the aspect.

###### Momentum
Momentum is the group [[Meta currencies|meta currency]] The Momentum pool is capped at 6 momentum. It is gained as part of a dice roll or through talents. If a [[Skill test]] succeeds it generates 1 Momentum for each shift over the difficulty.
###### Momentum pool
Any Momentum generated when the pool is already at the cap of 6 is Bonus Momentum and must be used immediately or be lost. Some skills also generate Bonus Momentum. Bonus Momentum can never be stored in the Momentum pool. It must always be used immediately or be lost.
###### Momentum Spends
There are two special types of Momentum spends. Immediate and Repeatable. An Immediate Momentum spend is not bound to a prior successful task and the cost can optionally be payed by giving the GM Threat instead of paying with Momentum. A Repeatable Momentum Spend can be done more than once in a Round.
- **Buy extra dice** - 1,2,3 Momentum (Immediate, Repeatable) - before rolling the dice as part of a [[Skill test]] you may buy additional dice. You always roll at least 2 dice. The third die costs 1 Momentum, the fourth costs 2 Momentum and the fifth die costs 3 Momentum. If you buy all additional dice that's a total of 6 Momentum.
- **Keep the initiative** - 2 Momentum (Immediate) - at the end of your [[Action economy#Turn|Turn]], you can Keep the initiative for two Momentum. If you do, then your Team hands the next Turn over to itself, instead of another faction. You cannot Keep the initiative more than once in a row and you cannot Keep the initiative if all Characters in your Party have had a Turn this Round already.
- **Swift Action** - 2 Momentum - during your Turn, for two Momentum, you may perform a second Major Action at plus one difficulty. You can only ever perform two Major Actions in a Round.
- **Additional Minor action** - 1 Momentum (Repeatable) - during your turn you can spend one Momentum to perform an additional Minor action. You can only perform each type of Minor Action once in every Round.
- **Create an Aspect** - 2 Momentum - when you are successful at an Action you may spend two Momentum to create an Aspect with a free invoke that is narratively fitting to the action you performed. *Example - you scanned the temple ruins for life signs Successfully (Intelligence+Craft). The results show there are several and the complex is very deep. You spend 2 Momentum from the group pool and create the Aspect "Detailed Temple ruins Map"*
- **Obtain Information** - 1 Momentum (Repeatable) - after successfully completing an Action you may spend one Momentum to ask the GM a question related to your Action. The GM will answer truthfully but may not provide complete information. If your character has no way of gaining the knowledge you seek, from the Action performed, then the GM may give you your Momentum back and tell you that you just don't know.

###### Threat
Threat is the GM's [[Meta currencies|meta currency]] It is a dark mirror to the groups Momentum pool. The Threat pool is not capped. There are various sources that generate Threat over the course of a game.
- The GM starts the Story Arc with a number of Threat dependent on the number of players and the Threat level of the Arc. Higher stakes means more threat per player. 
- Whenever a Player rolls a Complication as part of a Skill test, the GM may bank two threat instead of creating a complication Aspect.
- Threat is gained as part of a dice roll or through talents. If a NPC Character succeeds at a [[Skill test]] it generates 1 Threat for each shift over the difficulty.
- Escalating stakes. When the scene becomes more threatening the GM may award themselves 1 to 3 threat, depending on the severity the stakes.

###### Threat Spends
- **Buy extra dice** - 1,2,3 Threat (Repeatable) - before rolling the dice as part of a [[Skill test]] you may buy additional dice. You always roll at least 2 dice. The third die costs 1 Threat, the fourth costs 2 Threat and the fifth die costs 3 Threat. If you buy all additional dice that's a total of 6 Momentum.
- **Seize the initiative** - 2 Threat - for two threat you can Seize the initiative from the Player Characters. An NPC character will go first instead of a player Character
- **Keep the initiative** - 2 Threat - at the end of your [[Action economy#Turn|Turn]], you can Keep the initiative for two Threat. If you do, then your Team hands the next Turn over to itself, instead of another faction. You cannot Keep the initiative more than once in a row and you cannot Keep the initiative if all Characters in your Party have had a Turn this Round already.
- **Swift Action** - 2 Threat - during your Turn, for two Threat, you may perform a second Major Action at plus one difficulty. You can only ever perform two Major Actions in a Round.
- **Additional Minor action** - 1 Threat (Repeatable) - during your turn you can spend one Threat to perform an additional Minor action. You can only perform each type of Minor Action once in every Round.
- **Create an Aspect** - 2 Threat - when you are successful at an Action you may spend two Threat to create an Aspect with a free invoke that is narratively fitting to the action you performed.
- **Create a Complication** - 2 Threat - you create a Complication Aspect, similar to when a character rolls a Complication during a Skill test. In this way the GM can add Complications to failed Skill tests that didn't roll a Complication or even to successful skill tests. Usually the Complication should stem from a meaningful source and not come out of nowhere. Although such complications are also in the realm of this Threat spend if the narrative could benefit from it.
- **Buy off Complication** - 2 Threat - when an NPC character rolls a Complication as part of a Skill test, then the GM may pay two threat to forego the creation of a Complication Aspect.
- **Reinforcements** - variable Threat - by spending threat the GM can introduce additional reinforcements. Depending on the potency of the reinforcements they cost 1 Threat for minor characters, two threat for more potent adversaries and 3 threat for major power houses. In a space battle star ships can also be brought in as reinforcements. The number of threat is dependent on the size of the ship.


